LocSync General Knowledge Base for Loc Care

\[Begin General Loc Care Tips\]

Hydration:

Keep your scalp hydrated by shampooing first then using a lightweight
natural oil, such as jojoba or argan oil, once or twice a week, best
after shampooing regimen. Oil is used to seal in moisture, not provide
moisture.

Drink plenty of water daily to maintain healthy hair from within.
Vegetables and fruits contain water that travels to the cells that need
a lot of hydration. Water alone does not sustain the body with moisture
for hair. Eating foods rich in vitamins that support hair growth is
better than applying the food item to the hair directly.

You may use a spray bottle with water and essential oils to mist your
locs daily. However, based on your locs ability and speed of absorption,
your locs may or may not be benefited from this. Steam treatments at
home may offer more benefits than Misting or spraying water alone.

Northern State residents further away from the equator seem to
experience more dryness and breakage than those close to the equator.
The air is less humid and people receive less sunlight benefits.

Moisture must be maintained in caring for locs to avoid excessive
breakage based on your loc type.

Maintenance:

Schedule regular maintenance (retwists or interlocking) every 4-8 weeks.
If your new growth is separating from the loc at the roots and getting
nappy, it may be time to secure the new growth by scheduling a
maintenance visit.

What is crochet root maintenance? Crochet root maintenance is the most
expensive of all loc maintenance compared to interlocking and retwisting
and takes the longest time to service at appointments than retwisting or
interlocking the same amount of new growth, but also lasts the longest
of all three. Average time 3 to 6 months.

Wicks or Wick loc maintenance 2 to 6 months maintenance intervals based
on your hair type and how soft or coarse it is to stay in a grip.

Use a satin or silk scarf or pillowcase to protect your locs while
sleeping. Cotton pillows, hoodie and shirts as well as blankets can add
excessive lint to your locs, investing in a few loc caps can help avoid
getting clothing lint into your locs.

Minor lint can be picked out with a tweezers or if it\'s major lint,
deeply embedded, it can be dyed your current color to hide it, but the
right dyes MUST be used in order to cover properly or it just rinses
back out to show lint again.

Too frequent loc maintenance can result in thinning at the roots or
breakage. Maintenance is to make sure your new growth grows properly
into your locs, it shouldn\'t be tight. Neatness is not always the issue
as long as they are healthy. Neatness is a cosmetic preference.

Avoid excessive manipulation or pulling of locs to prevent thinning.
Often times, locticians braids and barrels and 2 strand twisting, even
retwisting too tight, they are Not realizing the style is pulling at the
base as you go along the locs.

Leaving styles in too long can also cause thinning and distortion of the
locs along the locs as well.

Shampooing and Conditioning:

Use a residue-free clarifying shampoo to avoid product and dirt buildup
in locs.

Gently squeeze excess water out of locs after shampooing. Shampooing is
sometimes referred to as washing locs as well.

Avoid heavy conditioners that can cause loc buildup; use lightweight,
rinse-out conditioners instead.

In some cases with thick or dense locs, air drying your locs may cause
mildew/mold. High heat damages and overdries hair strands

---\-\-\-\-\--

How to Prevent Loc Breakage and Reduce Frizz

Avoid excessive tension during retwisting or interlocking.

Regularly moisturize locs using a water-based spray.

Use a silk or satin scarf at night to prevent friction.

Opt for protective styles that do not stress the roots.

Avoid over-styling or using too much heat on locs.

\[End General Loc Care Tips\]

---\-\-\-\--

\[Begin Loc History\]

Loc History and Cultural Significance

Locs (also known as dreadlocks) have historical roots in African, Hindu,
and Rastafarian cultures.

They are a symbol of spiritual strength, cultural identity, and
self-expression in many societies.

The term \"dreadlocks\" is often associated with Rastafarian beliefs but
has been adopted globally as a natural hairstyle choice.

Dreadlock is one word, it is not a bad word at all. The reason
dreadlocks is not a dreadful description of locs, nor is it a negative
term: the word dreadlocks is not to be broken into two words when used.
The "dread" definition is not the root word in dreadlocks as some
English terms. Therefore, "dread" does not describe locks as a type even
though "Locs" is used by itself often times. Example..Sisterlocks and
Wick locs are a description of Types of dreadlocks. But dread is not a
type of locks. So, dreadlocks are not "dreadful", rather, think of them
as "dreaded", a process of dreading..dreaded locs..just like Goldie
locks had lock curls..these are dreaded into a rope type of locs. If it
were to be depicted negatively using proper grammar, it would be more
negative saying dreadful locks to be sure you mean the actual disgust
with locs.

\[End Loc History\]

---\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\[Begin Product Ingredients\]

Loc Product ingredients:

Fatty alcohols, such as cetearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, stearyl
alcohol, and lauryl alcohol, are considered beneficial for hair. These
alcohols are long-chain fatty acids that help to:

Hydrate hair: They form a protective layer on the hair shaft, preventing
moisture loss.

Soften and smooth hair: They reduce friction between hair strands,
making it easier to detangle and style.

Improve hair texture: They add shine and gloss to the hair.

In contrast, short-chain alcohols, such as ethanol and isopropyl
alcohol, can be drying and damaging to hair. It is important to avoid
these types of alcohols in hair care products.

Petroleum jelly in Loc products can be a mixed issue.. While it can help
lock in moisture and prevent breakage, it also has some potential
drawbacks. If used sparingly and with caution, it can be beneficial for
some, but might not be the best option for others, especially those with
oily or sensitive skin.

Potential Benefits of petroleum jelly:

Moisture Retention:

Petrolatum (the active ingredient in petroleum jelly) is an occlusive,
meaning it creates a barrier on the skin and hair, preventing moisture
from evaporating. This can be helpful for dry or brittle locs, as it can
help keep the hair moisturized and less prone to breakage.

Protection:

The barrier created by petrolatum can also protect locs from
environmental factors like dryness and harsh weather.

Less Expensive Option:

Compared to some other moisturizing products, petroleum jelly is a
relatively affordable option.

Don\'t jump around from loctician to loctician. Stick with the same one
if they provide good loc care. A whole bunch of locticians pulling at
your locs with their habits vs one loctician taking time to learn your
loc care habits is a big difference on the care of your locs.

\-\--

What are the best oils for locs?

Lightweight oils such as jojoba, argan, and grapeseed oil are best
because they do not cause buildup.

How often should I wash my locs?(sometimes people refer to shampooing
locs as washing locs)

For mature locs, wash every 1-2 weeks. For starter locs, limit washing
to every 3-4 weeks until they mature.

\[End Product Ingredients\]

---\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\[Begin List of Possible Loc Services\]

Loc Services that can possibly be done:

(Loc Maintenance Choices)

Loc Maintenance-Retwist Root Maintenance

Loc Maintenance-Interlock Root Maintenance

Loc Maintenance-Crochet Root Maintenance

Loc Maintenance-Microlock/Sisterlock Retightening

Loc Maintenance-Wick Maintenance

Loc Maintenance-Palm Roll

Loc Maintenance-Crocheting Hair Along Locs

(Traditional Starter Loc Methods)

Starter Locs-Finger Twists

Starter Locs-Coil Comb

Starter Locs- 2 strand twist

Starter Locs-Braids

(Specialty locs installed without extension)

Starting Speciality Locs- Sisterlocks

Starting Specialty Locs- Microlocs

Starting Specialty Loc - Wick Locs

Starting Specialty Locs- Instant Locs

Straight Hair Starting (with crochet hook)

(Synthetic Hair Extension Variations)

Temporary Locs-Faux Locs Extensions Install

Temporary Locs-Goddess Locs Install

Temporary Locs-Boho Locs install

Temporary Locs- Gypsy Locs Install

Temporary Locs - Single Ended and Double Ended Wool Locs

Misc-Converting Freeform Locs to Traditional Locs

Misc-Converting Starter Locs to Instant Locs

Misc-Converting Starter Locs to Permanent Loc Extensions

(Loc Styles one can get once they have mature locs over 6 inches)

Loc Styling-Combining Locs

Loc Styling-Loc Jewelry Install

Loc Styling -Braids

Loc Styling -Updos

Loc Styling -Strand Twists

Loc Styling-Curls Pipe Cleaner

Loc Styling-Curls Rods

Loc Styling-Barrels

Loc Styling-Fishtails

Loc Styling- Bantu knots

Loc Styling- Spirals

Loc Styling- Ponytails

Loc Styling- Petals

Loc Styling- Complex Styles

Loc Styling- Wedding Services

Loc Styling- Bald Coverage Styling

(Loc Extensions installs that just use extra bulk Human Hair)

Loc Extensions-Human Hair Permanent Loc Extensions

Loc Extensions-Extending Existing Mature Locs or Extending

Loc Extensions-Full head Loc Attachment of new locs

Loc Extensions-Full head Loc Reattachments of old locs

(These are the different types of repairs that can be done on locs or
the different types of Loc Repair for natural human hair locs only, not
synthetic extensions.)

Loc Repair- Loc Reattachments

Loc Repair- Extending a Loc

Loc Repair- New Loc Attachments

Loc Repair- Making new single locs

Loc Repair- Fix Bulging Locs

Loc Repair- Reattaching a broken off loc

Loc Repair- Replacing a loc with human hair loc

Loc Repair- Thinning at root or separation of Root from loc

Loc Repair- Thinning of the loc in one or more places along the loc

Loc Repair- Sliding locs or sliding extensions at the root or at the
added point for extending locs

Loc Repair- Knot removal on locs

Loc Repair- Glue, string, synthetic hair removal

Loc Repair- Combining smaller locs

Loc Repair- Repositioning locs for better parts

Loc Repair- Styles over Balding areas

Loc Repair -Cutting and replacing installed synthetic locs or repairs
made with synthetic hair

Cuts-Loc Cutting

Cuts-Loc Trimming

Cuts-Barbering/Line ups with Locs

Loc Dying-Coloring Locs Black or Darker over grey

Loc Dying-Coloring Locs Lighter

Loc Dying-Color Tips

Loc Balding Thinning Solutions: Loc Wigs

Loc Balding Thinning Solutions: Loc Tracks

Loc Balding Thinning Solutions: Loc Toupees

Shampoo Service-Basic Shampoo

Shampoo Service-Basic Condition

Shampoo Service-Detangle Service

Shampoo Service-Dandruff Shampoo

Shampoo Service-Steam Treatment

Shampoo Service-Hot Oil Treatment

Shampoo Service-Silk Protein Treatment

Shampoo Service-Deep Shampoo

Shampoo Service-Deep Condition

Shampoo Service-Apple Cider Vinegar Soak

Shampoo Service-Loc Detox

Shampoo Service-Lint Removal/Dying

\[End Possible Loc Services\]

---\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\[Begin Loc Definitions\]

Loc Definitions- Defining Locs

Retwist

A Maintenance Type. What is done on a periodic basis. Twisting the roots
of each loc in a manner to join new growth hairs into the mature and
formed part of the loc. Retwisting is done on afro kinky or curly hair.

Starter Locs

Traditional twisted locs formed by sectioning hair into parts and
forming the loose hair into a coil. This can be done by finger twisting,
using a comb to coil, braiding the hair and leaving until it mats and
locs, but even using a locking sponge. These are new and soft like curls
and must be maintained and twisted often to bud into locs. Starter locs
are usually soft and form to mature locs after 3 months to a year.

Maintenance

What is done periodically to keep locs neat, separated from each other
in uniform format and may include shampoo. Roots(loose hairs at scalp
that grows over time) at the scalp tightened and infused into each
corresponding loc to make sure loc keeps forming throughout the life of
your locs.

Interlocking Maintenance

Using an interlocking tool or latch hook tool to tighten loc at the
scalp until fuzzy new growth is harnessed. This is done by inserting the
tool at root of loc and bringing the loc through from the end of that
insertion at the root. There is a format where it should be tightened by
rotation methods.This makes sure the loc doesn\'t unravel. Mostly for
straight hair and hard to loc textures.

Retightening

Using a sisterlock tool or latch hook tool to insert into new growth and
pull locks through the new growth in a rotation manner to force hairs
into each loc that the new growth belongs to in parting.

Instant locs

Locs thats are formed the same day using a crochet tool to force join
the loose hair into

uniform tubal locs. This is done by sectioning the full head and
creating each loc using each section without extension only natural hair
growing from the scalp.

Permanent (Loc) Extensions

Premade human hair locs in various colors, thicknesses and lengths to
attach to at least 1 inch afro loose hair or 3 inches loose straight
hair at the scalp or at the ends of existing locs. This type of
extension is permanent and made to stay. Extensions are made from 100%
human hair when permanent.

Interlocks

Locs started using and interlocking tool called a latchhook. The latch
hook is used to pull hair through the top of the loose hair in a
rotation pattern until it reaches the scalp where it can no longer be
pulled through. This creates a bumpy pattern. People with straight,
curly and soft hair may need this technique to start their locs if their
hair does not automatically coil to form a loc over time. This starting
method is a way to force hair into a similar loc pattern to achieve a
loc but still must mature over time. Usually looks like bumpy braids at
first.

Sisterlocks

Very tiny locs created similar to the interlock pattern and trademarked
as Sisterlocks. The locs are created in a script grid parting pattern on
the scalp to achieve 200 to 400 locs or more.

Brotherlocks

Similar to Sisterlocks only slightly bigger and marketed to men.

Microlocks

Similar to sister and brother locks only they may be the same size or
slightly thicker and a grid pattern is no longer required as a branded
option.

Can be started with a tool, comb coiled or braided.

Repair

When locs have problems that prevent them from looking and feeling
healthy. Repair can consist of rejoining a broken loc, filling in
thinning areas where its not as thick using human hair is by joining the
fuzzy hairs back in by crochet tool or even adding a new loc where one
was lost.

Faux Locs

A form of loc extension created and styled using temporary methods and
synthetic hair. Usually worn 3 weeks to a month. Examples include gypsy,
Goddess, and butterfly locs.

Goddess Locs

A form of temporary faux locs made using wrapped synthetic hair and
curls at the ends. Can be made using human hair.

Crochet Maintenance

Maintenance using a small crochet hook at the roots to tighten to match
the loc pulling hairs into the loc as a neat finished look.

Latch Hook

A tool used to interlock locs at the roots and to make full interlocks
from loose hair.

Crochet Hook

A tool used to create, maintain and repair locs.

Sisterlock Retightening Tool

A certified Sister lock tool is used to create and maintain Sisterlocks.

Jewelry

Small trinkets, jewels, stones and wood that have rings or holes of
different sizes to decorate locs.

Wick Locks

Very large locs that are created in an artistic fashion originating from
Haiti.

Locking Sponge

A large sponge with holes in a pattern on one side that is used in a
swirling pattern to create instant twists. These twists can then form
into locs over time.

Boho Locs

A form of Temporary Faux Locs, synthetic locs that are mixed in with
curls.

Temporary Locs( also known as faux locs)

Color Tips

Locs that are primarily one color then on the tops, a different color
dyed lighter.

Y Locks

A mistake forming a Y shape in the root of the loc in interlock
maintenance, caused by improper methods. Rotations were not done.

Loctician

A person with skill to create, maintain and repair locs and solve
various problems related to locs.

Dreadlocks

Used to describe the sections of locked hair. Also known as locs,
whichever is comfortable both are used.

Loc Extensions

Premade synthetic or human hair locs in various colors, thicknesses and
lengths to attach to loose hair at the scalp.

Genie Locs

Yarn locs made from acrylic yarn. Caribbean style.

Baby Locs

A term used to describe small starters or new locs.

Dreads(Also known as Dreadlocks or Locs)

Knotty

Locs made naturally similar to Rastafarian locs.

Locs( Also known as Dreads or Dreadlocks)

Freeform

A head of locs that aren\'t uniform and in most cases different sizes
and lengths in the same head and has not received maintenance.

Rasta Locs

Locs made for the purpose of Rastafarian practice and Religion.

Butterfly Locs

Temporary faux locs designed in a distressed style of locs. Made using
synthetic hair.

Afro Kinky Hair

Hair in an afro texture used to make locs and natural styles. Usually
sells in bulk.

Marley Hair

Synthetic hair that mimics afro kinky hair to make synthetic temporary
locs.

Crochet Locs

Locs that are formed into their shape using a tiny crochet hook.

Tree Locs

When two locs have been joined together and over time grows as one,
there are often two strands of locs at the bottom of the single loc that
shows where the loc was joined. It is one loc coming out of the scalp
and branching off into two or more locs for joining over time and not
combining the entire loc at time of joining.

Wool Locs

Locs made using lambs wool. Usually making single or double ended locs.
Even though they are temporary and often in many different colors,
Caucasian textures usually attach and can keep the loc as it naturally
mats into their natural hair if properly cultivated.

Single Ended Locs

Straight hairs are on one end of a temporary loc.

Double Ended Locs

Straight hairs are on both ends of the temporary loc.

Loc Thinning

When a loc is one thickness all over and extra

thin in one or more areas of the loc, it may appear as though it is
separating from the strands and very skinny in those areas. Can also
mean the hair is growing from the scalp at a much thinner rate than when
you started and you can see the difference at the scalp toward the
bottom of the loc.

Loc Attachment /Reattachment

Taking an existing loc, whether they are premade, cut from a person\'s
head or broken off, and attaching it to loose hair or new growth at the
scalp.

Bulging Loc

A loc that has an area along the loc that is extra thick. Usually two
locs joined at the bulge and layered on top of each other as a repair.
This is wrong seeing that it must be a seamless repair where you can\'t
tell where it\'s repaired. No bulge should exist.

Loc Gel

Gel that is formulated to work with the maintenance of locs to give a
smoother outcome at the roots and help keep the new hairs in place.

Root Maintenance

Root maintenance handles harnessing the new growth and joining back into
the loc to leave a neat healthy look. Can be a retwist, interlock
maintenance, crocheting roots or sisterlock retighten.

Loc Style

Loc styling involves taking properly maintenanced locs and designing
them into various ways that are in a pattern or pinned up temporarily as
regular styles without locs. Some examples include barrels, braids, pin
ups and up dos, curls, fishtails and strand twisting to get crinkle
curls.

Barrels

Locs styled into barrel-like braids.

Pipecleaner curls

Taking small rollers or pipe cleaner rods and curling locs.

Fishtails

Locs formed into fishtails as a design.

2 strand twists

Taking 2 locs and twisting them into a spiral loc.

Braidlocs

Locs made initially by braiding and leaving them that way into .aturing
locs, the method that takes the longest to loc naturally.

Coils

Curls in a spiral pattern used to make starter locs.

Palm roll

After retwisting or interlocking roots, palm rolling is taking the loc
between two palms and rolling back and forth to make the loc more
uniform and help the loose hairs join back into the loc. This is mostly
for kinky hair textures.

Comb twist

A starter loc method to part and coil loose hair that will later form
into locs from the coils.

Comb twist comb

A tool used to create comb coils that are considered starter locs. They
can also be used just to style the coils where they are combed out
later.

Finger Twists

Twists made using just the fingers, these would also loc over time with
proper maintenance.

Kinky Hair

Hair that is coiled with very tiny curls and waves.

Budding

A part in the starter loc process that shows your baby locs are starting
to form and loc. You begin to see small knots that appear like they are
finally beginning to mature.

Beeswax

Wax used to loc hair in the early days. It is considered bad because the
build up and mold it causes from joining the hair into locs, it never
dissolves and creates problems overtime. Straight hair textures used to
mostly use this.

Transition

The transition refers to women wearing unnatural hair styles and using
chemical products to tame the hair. For many it is habit forming so once
a person moves to a natural lifestyle, the transition is that movement
from unnatural to natural.

Journey

The time it takes for every person to start and mature their locs. It is
never the same and learning to care for locs can be a process.

Ugly phase

The process of removing old hair habits and getting starter locs and
seeing a person\'s scalp and head shape, people often don\'t like the
baby locs since they aren\'t defined and they call it the

ugly phase.

Build up

The white gunk is stuck in locs that consist of lint, products, oil and
dirt. Very difficult to get out once it\'s in the loc.

Ratting/ Backcomb

The process of matting straight hair textures to prepare for making
locs.

Parting

Sectioning off loose hair to create or attach locs at the scalp. Some
parting methods include, boxes, brick, triangles, diamonds, and natural
parting where there is no distinct pattern.

Locksmithing

A rolling technique used in maintenance with the thumb instead of the
palm roll.

\[End of Loc Definitions\]

---\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\[Begin Explanation of Services\]

Loc Maintenance Types

Traditional Locs:

Maintained with palm rolling, retwisting, or freeforming.

Suitable for thick or coarse hair textures.

Interlock Locs:

Created using a crochet needle or interlocking tool.

Best for those who want secure roots with less unraveling.

Crochet Locs:

Formed using a crochet hook to tighten and maintain locs.

Provides a strong, uniform look without unraveling.

Sisterlocks:

Micro-sized locs installed using a precision tool.

Suitable for thin or fine hair textures.

Wick locs:

Very large, thick locs ranging from 2 to 20 in count.

Suitable for afro Coarse textures.

Loc Attachments/Loc Reattachments

Old locs cost more and take more time to reinstall than new locs.

Old locs can have many weak points causing multiple repairs per loc at
install.

If Old locs weren\'t washed before install, we prefer to have you send
or bring to us ahead of time so we can have them washed, detoxed and
ready at your appt. If your hair is a hard Coarse Afro texture, then
it\'s easier to install and stay gripped longer than shiny, smooth,
Fine, Soft and thin hair because that requires more time per loc
installed to join to that type of Texture for grip.

Locs, whether newly purchased or old locs to reinstall, they may tend to
slide during the beginning stages if not maintenanced in time according
to how you operate day to day. So they have to be monitored for slippage
and bulging and possible sliding all the way off the new growth.

If you have more Afro than 2 inches, you may get some instant locking of
your loose hair before installing the loc so that it grows out the same
Thickness as the loc over time. You don\'t want locs too thin or too
thick hanging off your Scalp and root hair.

If you have more than one area on one loc to be fixed, it is treated
like a single repair , a single repair can go as long as 5 to 10 minutes
per weak spot where a loc can be broken off or in a knot to restore.

Sometimes your hair at roots may have gotten thinner and reinstall might
not include all the locs received, we install each loc at the proper
thickness of grabbed hair so it grows out naturally, so there may be a
change. Some have also experienced needing more locs than they have if
some got lost or root hair got thicker since last time wearing the locs.
This is OK. More human hair natural Locs can be made like yours to
compensate for missing locs or extra areas needing locs.

When washing the locs, you will need to put it up in a Loose ponytail
above your head so you can scrub your Scalp. Putting it up discourages
gravity from forcing them to slide off your hair while wet and heavy,
for longer locs. You should let them dry fully before letting them down
to avoid that as much as possible.

Tight ponytails and styles cause the locs to pull and slide as well.

Coming in for monthly maintenance can make sure all sliding locs can be
fixed in the retwist or Interlocking appt. Waiting too long creates a
problem if a lot of locs sliding which takes more time and more cost as
a major loc repair appt.

Loc Repairs

Repairs consists of examples like the following:

Fixing Bulging locs

Reattaching a broken off loc

Replacing a loc with human hair loc

Thinning at root or separation of Root from loc

Thinning of the loc in one or more places along the loc

Sliding locs or sliding extensions at the root or at the added point for
extending locs

Knots in locs

Combining smaller locs

Repositioning locs for better parts

Styles over Balding areas

Cutting and replacing installed synthetic locs or repairs made with
synthetic hair

Each instance is considered a Repair and priced based upon the actual
loc needs, even if there is more than one area on a loc that needs
fixing. After repairs are made, it is important to check for any changes
to the repair since some hair textures may have trouble keeping the grip
to a repair. The key to all long lasting repairs is how well your hair
grips and keeps the attachment or repair even after wetness. Afro Coarse
textures keep repairs much longer than Afro Soft or Afro smooth
textures. Smooth soft thin and fine hair must be monitored to make sure
the repair sticks. Maintenance after repairs, usually 3 to 4 weeks
ensures we can check for the integrity of the repair. If maintenance
does not occur in a timely manner and locs not checked, they could
return to a broken state depending on the repair.

Loc Extensions & Extended Locs(Permanent human hair locs)

The number of locs that you yield in a new loc extension install,
depends on the Thickness of the loc and the Thickness of your hair
density. One person with thin hair can yield as low as 35 locs for
Pencil Thickness while another person yields 100 locs at Pencil
Thickness due to how thick/dense their hair is(number of strands per
inch on the scalp). A standard head would yield around 80 locs based on
the Pencil Thickness. It\'s hard to determine how many locs you\'ll
achieve until actual install. The smaller the locs or thinner the locs,
the more locs a person can have. So, sisterlocks and microlocks yield
way more locs than Sharpie or Pencil Thickness.

Locs are installed according to the amount of hair grabbed in any space,
trying to add 100 locs to a head that really fits 45 or 50 locs will
result in big locs hanging on thin hair in the coming months as it grows
out. You don\'t want that, you want each loc installed so that when your
hair grows out, you can\'t tell by Thickness where your hair ends and
where the extension begins, it should be a seamless install that matches
the amounts growing out your head.

Loc Extensions must be maintained monthly for at least 6 months for most
Soft textures. Extensions, extended locs and attachments cannot go
unmaintenanced for longer than 6 weeks. Loc Extensions can slide at the
roots without proper monthly maintenance.

If we don\'t make and Install the locs according to your hair custom
made then sometimes locs are purchased on the internet or from someone
else. One has to make sure the Texture of the premade locs matches the
texture of your hair. If you purchase locs for Caucasian straight
texture and you have Afro textured hair, those will not grow out
properly and the same vice versa. If you purchase locs that are too
dense, tight or hard and you have Soft smooth textured hair, then these
will also not grow out properly. Some loc textures are stiffer than
others and you must make sure you get the right locs.

If your hair is thinner, you will use less locs. Number of locs varies
per person.

Interlocking Roots

Interlocking roots is retightening the locs at the root by pulling the
loc through the new growth in intervals using a tool until it\'s semi
tight at that root. Used by those who want a longer retwist than the
retwist/palm roll method. Straight hair textures mostly use this
technique when there is no curl or kink to their hair. Afro textures can
also get interlocking to last longer. 2 months is a decent time interval
for most interlocking individuals. Interlocking should not be done too
tight. If too tight there was one too many intervals and you.can say
that to avoid a full head of pain and redness.

A proper interlock maintenance session should only have 2 to 3 turns per
loc. Less than that should require a little more new growth to make sure
the entire head is neat and uniform since in 2 to 3 turns some locs
require 1, 2 or even 3 to make a neat maintenance session. If you wait
longer than 6 weeks average and yield 4 to 5 or more turns per loc, that
doubles the time in the chair, therefore the price increases for longer
maintenance time. This usually happens when a client waits 3 months or
more for a session. Then because of the Long wait, you run the risk of
Additional repairs to your locs that went unmaintenanced in that time
frame. So, Interlocking the roots is priced based on the number of turns
per loc average.

Crocheting Along Fuzzy Locs

Some clients may have fuzzy Hairs up and down their locs that they want
either palm rolled or crocheting the Hairs back into the locs which both
is priced based on the number of locs and how long the locs are to
maintenance up and down the loc. Therefore, as your hair grows longer,
you will notice a price increase per inch of growth to work the locs up
and down each loc. The longer the locs, the higher the price and longer
time in the chair. Your Texture, whether smooth, Fine or straight, can
come out of the locs frequently because of the hard time the Texture has
to grip the loc. The time is increased the straighter your hair Texture.
So crocheting the hair into the locs can be frequent. Others have dense
hair and locks into place with no problems and don\'t need crocheting up
and down the locs. The fuzzy locs have no real effect on overall locking
and dreading of Your hair. Crocheting up and down is mostly a cosmetic
effect to make your locs appear more dense temporarily and must be
maintenanced each time to make it stay, because the straight hairs
wiggle out over time, or all the time especially after shampooing and or
wetting the hair.

Retwist/Palm Roll

Retwists should be done according to your texture, growth rate.
Retwisting is taking the loc and securing the new growth into the
existing loc, parted neatly and twisted to use the palms together and
roll down to incorporate the new growth. Kinky afro textures use this
method, straight hair cannot get the true benefits because straight hair
does not coil. You need coil to properly retwist and lock.

One person needs a retwist every 6 weeks while another may be on a 2
month schedule. Retwists aren\'t necessarily done to keep neat, but to
join the Hairs of the new growth into the locs. Shampooing should be
done at least every week to maintain moisture since locs soak up more
moisture and dries out faster than loose hair. In between visits a silk
scarf or updo scarf can be used for styling. Retwists last longer with
an accompanied style.

Retwists are different from repairs. A proper retwist is only retwisting
the roots and palm rolling with no additional needs. If there are any
mishaps such as breaking or Thinning locs, even at the roots, it\'s now
considered a repair. You can usually find places that are irregular when
you run your finger tips down each of the locs from root to tip. If a
connection is proven or weak, that would need Repairing, if your locs
are extremely uneven where some locs are 4 inches and others are 8, we
can either cut the locs to uniform length or add extension to the
shorter locs, which is also considered a Repair. If your locs are badly
matted together and need a detangling service or Dandruff throughout
locs, or lont removal services like that yields extra service. With
regular maintenance, you can avoid needing repairs and try to adjust
your schedule better to meet your maintenance needs to avoid repairs all
together. But the longer the wait in between repairs, the more time in
chair and the higher the cost. Retwisting too tight leads to repairs
over time.

Along with retwisting the roots, some textures may need palm rolling or
crocheting up and down the loc for softer and straighter textures, to
keep the locs neat up and down and force hairs where they should go to
grow into the loc. These are priced accordingly. Crocheting along the
loc takes a lot more time than palm rolling the locs. As your hair grows
longer, palm rolling and crochet price is dusted by inches.

Wicks or Wick locs

Also known as bonks, wicked locs, congos and flats.

Wicks are large locs created from your loose hair, loc extensions or
combining existing locs into bigger locs. Wicks installs and conversions
can take hours depending on how much hair you have.

Pricing is based on the skill level needed to work extensively with the
tiny single crochet needle, so your locs are maintenanced with care.
Maintenance is usually monthly to 6 months, which would consist of
shampooing and root maintenance with optional maintenance up and down
the locs. A full head can have anywhere from 1 to 10 wicks and they are
smaller if more locs are made. It is much more difficult to combine
existing locs than it is to create quick extensions and new locs from
natural hair.

Thicker locs such as wicks require a longer Shampoo and dry time to get
through the locs than standard loc thicknesses.

If the locs are separating from a previous joining of the loc, that
would be considered a repair.

Crochet Root Loc Maintenance

Crochet root maintenance is when the new growth of a loc is brought into
the loc from the root using a tiny needle crochet hook. Crocheting the
roots lasts longer than interlocking and retwisting. If retwisting would
take 2 weeks to get fuzzy, then Interlocking may be a month and
crocheting at 2 months as an example. Crocheting can be damaging if not
done properly, breaking the hair at the roots over time. So if the hair
is fragile, it should be considered important.

Crochet roots have a Longer maintenance schedule than your same retwist
schedule.

Starter Locs

Starter locs are the traditional starting method before Instant locs and
extensions. You can normally get coils, braids, 2 Strand Twists or
finger Twists and is suitable for coil Kinky hair. Straight hair
textures cannot get Starter locs if they can\'t maintain a curl. The
curl and grip is what makes dreadlocks form naturally.

Starter locs can be washed by placing a stocking cap over them before
wetting and scrubbing.

You can also convert Starters to instant locs to end the process or you
can even get Extensions to convert them to loc extensions.

It is best for most textures that have starters to get maintenance every
2 weeks at first then move to monthly afterwards. Starting Starter locs
depending on the method usually is done shorter than 8 inches and
standard 4 inches.

If you wait too long in-between retwists, your starters become damaged
or matted together at the roots, needing repair work. If there is deep
buildup in the locs or needing excessive lint removal services, it is a
call to change your maintenance regimen in some way. Often the cheapest
method to start locs.

As far as losing length, it all depends on the curling of your hair at
making the starter locs. You are basically getting coils, which loses
the most length, finger and 2 strand twists which is little to no length
lost and braid locs the same.

-Finger twists (1 inch to 2 inch kinky hair to start)

-Coils (1 to 4 inches kinky hair to start)

-2 strand(4 inches and longer-best for straighter longer hair)

-Brush starters (short hair-kinky hair textures)

Straight hair( can\'t get starters, too straight -need instant locs)
because starter locs aren\'t possible, they are required to coil to
mature which straight hair will not coil,

Instant Locs

Instant locs are basically an upgrade from the traditional coil, Braid,
finger twist or 2 Strand starter loc. Instants are created from your
hair as though they were made from extensions. So your natural length of
Loose hair on your head should at the very least be 3 inches for any
texture, Afro textures may get away with 2in installed. Relaxed(permed)
textured hair also can get locs using this method.

Instants are created using a tiny crochet hook so that you have same-day
locs out the door with no extensions added.

You can Shampoo them with ease without having to worry about unravelling
and should now get maintenance every 6 weeks on average, more or less
depending on individual needs. Any type of root maintenance can now be
chosen as the maintenance type requested be it retwisting, interlocking
or crocheting the roots.

Newly installed instant locs sometimes loses a little bit of Natural
Length because the hair is technically brought up into nappy Curls
before locs are formed. So the ends may disappear, depending on how
scarce the hair is at the ends of your hairs. Some textures are more
coily than others which makes the hair look shorter than it really is
when stretched out, so some may experience more Length than expected in
creating each loc. Please note that since your own hair is shorter and
longer in areas of your head, as well as the edges and back row being
thinner than the middle, your locs will not all be the same length,
unless they are cut to the same length or minor extension inches added
to the shorter areas to match the longer so it doesn\'t look off. You
can also leave it Natural and uneven without extension if desired.

Adding extensions with significant inches can also be added later to
your own locs after instant loc install to simply make them longer.

You can also get instant locs converted from starter locs to speed up
and end the locking process.

Straighter hair textures will naturally lose a couple inches at least
because the hair has to be kinked and pre-matted first.

Sisterlocks/Microlocks and Brotherlocks

All tiny locs aren\'t treated, started or maintenanced the same.

Sisterlocks are very tiny locs created with a tool and Parted in an
elaborate grid pattern. Brotherlocks are the same, only a little bigger
and intended to sell to men.

Retightening is done with a tool and must be maintenanced every 3 to 4
weeks due to the tinyness of the locs and their ability to break off if
too much new growth at the root is unmaintenanced.

Microlocks are started sometimes with braids or Twists as, but is better
if created as locs from the beginning, especially if adding extensions,
you\'ll want real locs instead of Twists. Depending on the Thickness, it
depends on how Thin the locs are in determining the frequency of Root
Maintenance, they can be retwisted or interlocked at the roots. Adding
extensions depends on the strength of your hair because tiny locs hold
more weight on the scalp as they are longer with possible breakage
problems if hair isn\'t strong enough or pulling too much weight.

Shampooing and Moisture Treatments

Shampooing locs should be done at least once a week outside regular
maintenance appts. Dandruff, dryness, smells and growth problems can be
eliminated with a proper Shampooing regimen. Locs are prone to extra
dryness if in a dry climate or cold climate. Oil only works to seal in
current moisture, otherwise it creates build up and dryness over time.
If you have a lot of locs or long locs, it can be difficult to Shampoo
every time.

Steam Treatments

Residents in northern states experience dry and breaking locs more
frequently than residents closer to the equator.

Lack of moisture, sunlight and accelerated dryness is a common factor in
the winter time.

Steaming locs is good for those who can\'t wash often and good for those
with a style they may not want to take down yet.

Steaming should be done in 20 minute sessions 1 to 2 times per week.

However, if you use a steam treatment to get locs more moisture, that is
a good alternative in between shampoos and use leave in conditioner.

Basic shampoos are more economical but your locs may need more depending
on how often you shampoo in between. We offer all types of shampoo
services to get and lock moisture in as well as keep clean.

Straight Hair Care and Maintenance

Afro textures can sometimes appear straight but still Kinky.

Some Afro textures are relaxed and would be treated as straight hair in
loc sessions.

Straight hair maintenance takes almost 3 times as long as Kinky hair
maintenance.

Loc Combining and Splitting

Cutting locs in half from the root to tip is very dangerous, you are
ripping every stran to shreds doing this. Unless there were 2 or more
locs combined together for instance to form thicker or wick locs that
can be separated, one should not cut their locs in half. Loc Combining.
Can be done temporarily by wrapping the locs together needed to make the
Thickness desired or permanently by distress g the locs to weaken them
and join forever. Loc combing can be done cosmetically to make locs
thicker from like sisterlocks to pencil thickness or even pencil to wick
locs. Loc combining.can also be needed in repair if some locs are
thinner than others and can be combined to look like the locs
surrounding for repair purposes. Once combined, depending on texture,
they should not or cannot be separated without a lot of work and
technique.

Brushing locs

Brushing locs pulls out strands up and down the locs even though people
are brushing to handle frizz. It just creates more frizz over time and
would require crocheting the Hairs back into locs up and down each loc.
This depends on the brush used and the texture of the hair as well as
how easy the shafts release single strands to make Frizzy.

One can crochet the loc hairs back into the locs but there is a chance
based on texture, if it\'s soft, Fine or smooth with low grip, those
Hairs may come out again after washing. Locs are maintained best with
the best grip of strands. Softer textures may be tempted to brush locs
to keep frizz down but should probably use a soft brush to help prevent
making it worse.

Misting locs

Misting cannot be beneficial unless one knows how much to mist and the
frequency to keep moisture depends on the locs ability to get and retain
the moisture. One may need more Misting than another because of this.
Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn\'t because you may need more
or less based on your specific hair needs at that time. It is a hit or
miss.You also don\'t want to mist too much, because you can develop
mold/mildew from improper drying of the locs and moisture trapping
inside due to excessive Misting.

Styling Locs

Locs should not be in a style longer than 2 weeks to avoid permanent
choking of loc shafts. 2 strand Twists barrels and braids often tear out
lcos creating Alopecia at the hairline and should be done with care to
avoid too tight and uncomfortable styles. They should not be too tight
where the scalp is red or sore or scabbing. 2 strands can be taken down
to form.another style called crinkles.

Curls styles can be done with rods, Pipe Cleaners, bantu knots, rollers
or other small items and dryer using a dryer, not air dry.

Coloring locs

Locs should be dyed by color professionals. Dying locs requires extra
care with shampooing and conditioning to avoid needing loc repair due to
breakage from overprocessing and dry locs. Everybody is not the same and
should consult before dying.

Loc jewelry

Loc jewelry can be applied except it must be removed in all cases before
interlocking hair because you have to pull locs through new growth to
tighten during maintenance. Loc jewelry can also be a danger due to
heaviness. Attaching heavy jewelry can make a loc thinner overtime due
to the pull all day everyday. The longer the locs, the heavier they are.
Any loc jewelry should be placed professionally or removed periodically.

Faux locs, temporary locks, goddess, gypsy, boho etc

Temporary locs typically use synthetic hair for installation. Hair is
braided into sections for locs, then wrapped using various techniques to
make a temporary lock look.These are usually removed within 6 months and
should be removed by a professional to avoid cutting the natural glue or
damaging the roots.

Loc products and ingredients

Some ingredients like petroleum jelly, most alcohols, mineral oils,
straight essential oils, etc,set the health and vitality of your locs
and scalp back. It\'s important to learn the ingredients that work for
you since everyone is different. Some good ingredients like coconut,
jojoba, sweet almond or organic oil are beneficial to locs used in
moderation. Using food products are okay but don\'t really get to the
source of healthy hair.

Dandruff

Dandruff in locs is very frustrating because the dandruff flakes are
intertwined in the new growth near the scalp, making it impossible to
pull through the hair due to locs formed. This dandruff is better
removed if dissolved off the hair. Otherwise a lot of work is required
to remove every instance of dandruff.

Dandruff is usually an indicator of not getting enough shampoos/moisture
to the scalp, irritating products, or abrasion to the scalp, forcing it
to protect itself. Product usage should be monitored to see if that is
the problem or if you need more shampoos or even to seek a
dermatologist.

Combing locs out

Combing locs out to loose hair status can be daunting and a long
process. Locticians often charge per hour for this service. Depending on
your texture, it can take a long time to comb out. 20 hours is common
for kinky hair. Straight hair may be extremely matted. Starter locs are
much easier to comb out than mature long locs.

Some experience a lot of breakage in Combing out locs because their hair
amounted to broken strands forming locs overtime. This is because that
person may have weak, thin, Fine or soft hair that breaks easily. New
growth that breaks at a certain length joins into the loc instead of
falling out. Combing out these locs results in very uneven hair at the
end of the process.

Hair that is very strong, where the strands mostly stay intact the
entire time of having locs, comb out easier and the hair is still the
average length it would be combed out. Knowing how the hair was before
locs would determine how your locs formed themselves overtime, as long
strands or broken strands and how the hair may end up after Combing out
the locs.

Matted straight hair from locs that need to be combed out, maybe a
little harder to comb out depending on the wildness of the strands in
forming the locs. Since straight hair, smooth textures need some
backcombing to form locs, that hair may be very matted to comb out and
requires the hair to sit in a detangling solution to ease the strands
and pain.

Lint/Product buildup

Lint in locs is usually from sweaters, hooded jackets, pillows,
blankets. Lint is basically fabric lodged into the loc. Depending on how
deeply lodged, how much, how tight the loc is itself and the texture,
makes a difference if it can be soaked out, removed by hand or even
dyed.

Trimming cutting locs

It\'s okay to trim and cut locs at the bottom of the loc. Sometimes
unravelling or separating can occur depending on how your locs were
started, formed or changed. Combined locs that are cut at the bottom may
need closing to prevent unravelling or separating.

Oil in locs

All oils aren\'t the same. Oils have different thicknesses and
absorption rates and each person also has an absorption rate to their
hair so if we do not know our own absorption rates, it\'s impossible to
know without extensive research, the oils we.most need for our locs.

Oil is not moisture, it seals in moisture, so the locs must have proper
moisture to seal in. Improper usage of oil creates build up and further
dryness. Locs should not be oiled excessively.

Rice water/Rose water

Because we need to know our absorption rates for absorbing moisture in
our locs, and because we are all different in our loc habits, regimens
etc, rice water and rose water could work. You would need to know how
long to use it for your particular loc regimen to get the full benefits
of rice water or rose water. The compounds must be made correctly as
well to get the benefits.

\[End of Loc Definitions\]

---\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

\[Begin Product Guidance by Texture\]

🔎 Product & Ingredient Guidance by Texture Type

🌟 Thin/Fine Afro-Textured Locs

For thin or fine afro-textured locs, choose light, non-heavy ingredients
to avoid buildup and weigh-down.

Loc gels should include aloe vera, flaxseed extract, light plant-based
gums, and small amounts of glycerin for a soft hold and moisture
balance. Avoid heavy waxes, mineral oil, strong silicones, and heavy
oils.

Oils like jojoba, grapeseed, and argan oil are best because they are
lightweight and won\'t clog or coat the hair heavily. Avoid castor oil
and coconut oil, as they are too heavy for fine strands.

Leave-in conditioners should have aloe vera juice, panthenol (vitamin
B5), light hydrolyzed proteins, and gentle humectants. Avoid heavy
butters (like shea or cocoa) and silicones.

Shampoos and conditioners should contain gentle cleansers (like
cocamidopropyl betaine), lightweight botanicals, and small amounts of
hydrolyzed protein for strength. Avoid sulfates, heavy silicones, and
overly rich conditioning agents that can weigh the locs down.

\-\--

🌟 Coarse Afro-Textured Locs

Coarse afro-textured locs need richer moisture and stronger sealing.

Loc gels should have aloe vera, honey, and marshmallow root extract for
moisture retention and flexibility. Avoid hardening alcohols and strong
resin-based hold agents that can cause dryness.

Oils like castor, olive, and avocado oil work best for sealing in
moisture and reducing frizz. Light oils alone may not provide enough
protection.

Leave-in conditioners should contain shea butter (used lightly), aloe
vera, honey, and coconut milk for deep hydration. Avoid heavy silicones
and high alcohol content.

Shampoos and conditioners should use moisturizing, sulfate-free
cleansers, nourishing oils, and fatty alcohols (like cetyl and stearyl
alcohol) for softness and manageability. Avoid harsh clarifiers (except
occasionally) and sulfates that can strip moisture.

\-\--

🌟 Wavy Curly Afro-Textured Locs

Wavy or curly afro-textured locs need balanced hydration without too
much weight.

Loc gels should include flaxseed extract, aloe vera, and moderate levels
of glycerin to maintain curl definition and flexibility. Avoid excessive
waxes and strong alcohol-based fixatives.

Oils like argan, sweet almond, and jojoba are lightweight and help lock
in moisture without heaviness. Avoid mineral and petroleum-based oils.

Leave-in conditioners should include aloe vera, panthenol, light oils,
and botanical extracts to enhance moisture and softness. Avoid heavy
butters and waxes that can weigh curls down.

Shampoos and conditioners should feature mild surfactants, hydrating
agents (such as hyaluronic acid and aloe), and plant extracts. Avoid
harsh sulfates and heavy silicones that can disrupt curl patterns.

\-\--

🌟 Straight Hair Textured Locs

Straight hair locs benefit from very lightweight products to prevent
buildup and maintain movement.

Loc gels should have aloe vera, light plant-based fixatives, and seaweed
extract for a light hold. Avoid waxes and heavy oils that can quickly
cause buildup.

Oils like grapeseed, jojoba, and argan oil work well because they are
non-greasy and absorb easily. Avoid coconut oil, as it may weigh
straight locs down.

Leave-in conditioners should contain hydrolyzed proteins, aloe vera, and
light humectants to provide strength and light moisture. Avoid heavy
butters and greasy emollients.

Shampoos and conditioners should include light proteins, panthenol, and
occasional clarifying agents to remove buildup. Avoid heavy moisturizers
and silicones that can coat the hair.

\-\--

🌟 Grey Fine-Textured Afro Locs

Grey fine-textured afro locs often need lightweight moisture and gentle
brightening.

Loc gels should have aloe vera, light proteins, and marshmallow root
extract for gentle control and hydration. Avoid waxes and heavy
fixatives that can cause buildup and dullness.

Oils like jojoba, argan, and rosehip oil provide lightweight nourishment
without overpowering fine strands. Avoid heavy oils like castor or
coconut oil.

Leave-in conditioners should feature aloe vera, panthenol, and light
hydrating botanicals to keep hair soft and reduce brittleness. Avoid
heavy butters and strong fragrances or dyes.

Shampoos and conditioners should contain mild, sulfate-free cleansers,
brightening botanicals (such as sage and chamomile), and hydrating
extracts. Avoid sulfates and heavy silicones, which can make grey hair
look dull.

\-\--

🌟 Grey Coarse-Textured Afro Locs

Grey coarse-textured afro locs need deep hydration and sealing without
excessive weight.

Loc gels should have aloe vera, honey, and marshmallow root extract for
moisture and manageability. Avoid waxes and strong alcohols that cause
dryness.

Oils like olive, avocado, and sweet almond oil provide rich moisture and
seal in hydration effectively. Lighter oils alone may not be enough.

Leave-in conditioners should include shea butter (used lightly), honey,
and aloe vera to maintain softness. Avoid heavy silicones and heavy
perfumes that can irritate the scalp.

Shampoos and conditioners should use moisturizing, sulfate-free
surfactants, nourishing oils, and botanical extracts to maintain
softness and vibrancy. Avoid sulfates and overly clarifying formulas
that can strip essential oils.

---

🌟 Temporary Locs (Boho, Faux, Goddess Locs)

Temporary loc styles such as boho locs, faux locs, and goddess locs use
synthetic or blended hair and are designed to last for a limited time
--- usually 6 to 12 weeks depending on install method and hair type.
They must be cared for differently than permanent loc extensions or
natural locs.

To maintain them, keep your scalp clean by using a diluted gentle
shampoo or scalp cleanser on a cotton ball or applicator bottle. Avoid
heavy oils or creams that can cause buildup on synthetic hair. Light
scalp oils (like tea tree or jojoba in small amounts) can be used to
soothe itching.

Temporary locs do not require retwisting like natural locs. Instead,
focus on keeping them neat by wrapping hair at night with a silk or
satin scarf and avoiding excess tension at the root.

If repairs are needed (such as a loc slipping or unravelling) within the
wearing period, these can usually be rewrapped or crocheted back into
place by your stylist. However, too many repairs may indicate that the
install is nearing its end.

When it's time to remove them, take them down gently to avoid damaging
your natural hair underneath. After removal, thoroughly cleanse and deep
condition your natural hair to restore moisture and scalp balance.

Temporary locs are meant to be a protective style, not a permanent
solution. Leaving them in too long can cause matting, tension alopecia,
or buildup, so always follow the recommended time frame for wear and
maintenance.

\[End of Product Guidance by Texture\]
